Add new product-led metrics to handbook (#4521)
sourcegraph/about: handbook/ops/bizops/user_definitions.md

# User metrics definitions

We use metrics to guide prioritization and planning. By defining metrics against the kinds of behaviors that we want to drive, we can plan features and measure results against the outcomes we're looking for. The three most important metrics we track are acquisition (of visitors), activation (turning them into active users), and retention (keeping them month to month).

Specific targets for FY22 can be found on the [product home page](../../product/index.md#goals).

## User states

Users can be in a number of different states. We track the following categories for each month. The descriptions below are framed as though we're talking about MAU, but the same definitions apply to whatever period is being considered.

> | Metric      | Description                                                      |

Author: Makes sense @ebrodymoore - for these, which are applicable to which? I'm happy to make the markdown change but am not sure what the answer is.

> | Metric      | Description                                                      |

Reviewer: Made the commit [here]!(https://github.com/sourcegraph/about/pull/4521/commits/03b83b9c65b799f641061bb62ea32a292d8ae182)

> | Metric      | Description                                                      |

Author: Thanks so much @ebrodymoore!

| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Visitor     | Users who accessed the site                                      |
| Active      | Users who performed a qualifying event (see below)               |
| Retained    | Users who were active last month _and_ this month                |
| Churned     | Users who were active last month but not this month              |
| Resurrected | Users who were _not_ active last month but are active this month |
| Created     | Users whose account was created this month                       |
| Deleted     | Users whose account was deleted this month                       |

### What is a visitor?

A visitor is a unique person who showed up on the site and did anything (or nothing at all, apart from viewing the page.) This is important to measure because each of these users is potentially an active user, but it's also important that we don't count anyone who uses the product as an active user so that we can measure success of our features that are intended to convert them.

### What is an active user?

> An active user is differentiated from a visitor by performing a qualifying event, which are intended to represent someone who has actively **engaged with** and **received value** from the product; something that takes a user from their first Search to establishing a habit around the core value proposition of the app. Qualifying events are:
> 
> | Product area              | Qualifying event                   | Description                                                                                         |
> | ------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | Searching for code        | `SearchSubmitted`                  | Submit a search                                                                                     |
> | Navigating the code graph | `findReferences`, `goToDefinition` | Click on go to definition or fin references. Hovering is excluded as it can be performed passively. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An active user is differentiated from a visitor by performing a qualifying event, which are intended to represent someone who has actively **engaged with** and **received value** from the product; something that takes a user from their first Search to establishing a habit around the core value proposition of the app. Qualifying events are [listed as 'Active' in Amplitude](https://analytics.amplitude.com/sourcegraph/govern/project/333976/events?filter=live)
```

# User metrics definitions

> ## On-premise

Reviewer 2: Given the way you present the information in this pull request, it seems correct to no distinguish between on-premises in cloud.

> ## On-premise

Author: Resolving this thread since we seemed to agree.

Specific targets for FY22 can be found on the [product home page](../../product/index.md#goals).

## User states

> Users can be in a number of different states. We track the following categories in pings for each month. The descriptions below are framed as though we're talking about MAU, but the same definitions apply to whatever period is being considered.

Reviewer 2: I would remove the words "in pings" from the following sentence:" We track the following categories in pings for each month."

Author: ```suggestion
Users can be in a number of different states. We track the following categories for each month. The descriptions below are framed as though we're talking about MAU, but the same definitions apply to whatever period is being considered.
```

> Users can be in a number of different states. We track the following categories in pings for each month. The explanations are framed as though we're talking about the current month, but apply to any given month (or whatever period is being considered).

Author: ```suggestion
Users can be in a number of different states. We track the following categories in pings for each month. The descriptions below are framed as though we're talking about MAU, but the same definitions apply to whatever period is being considered.
```

| Metric      | Description                                                      |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Visitor     | Users who accessed the site                                      |
| Active      | Users who performed a qualifying event (see below)               |
| Retained    | Users who were active last month _and_ this month                |
| Churned     | Users who were active last month but not this month              |
| Resurrected | Users who were _not_ active last month but are active this month |
| Created     | Users whose account was created this month                       |
| Deleted     | Users whose account was deleted this month                       |

### What is a visitor?

> A visitor is a unique person who showed up on the site and did anything (or nothing at all, apart from viewing the page.) This is important to measure because each of these users is potentially an active user, but it's also important that we don't count anyone who lands on the site as an active user so that we can measure success of our features that are intended to convert them.

Reviewer 2: In this section to accommodate that we are describing metrics for both on-premises and cloud solutions could we replace the word "site" with "product" or something that does not infer a "location"?  Reach out if this feedback is unclear.

Author: ```suggestion
A visitor is a unique person who showed up on the site and did anything (or nothing at all, apart from viewing the page.) This is important to measure because each of these users is potentially an active user, but it's also important that we don't count anyone who uses the product as an active user so that we can measure success of our features that are intended to convert them.
```

### What is an active user?

An active user is differentiated from a visitor by performing a qualifying event, which are intended to represent someone who has actively **engaged with** and **received value** from the product; something that takes a user from their first Search to establishing a habit around the core value proposition of the app. Qualifying events are:

| Product area              | Qualifying event                   | Description                                                                                         |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Searching for code        | `SearchSubmitted`                  | Submit a search                                                                                     |
| Navigating the code graph | `findReferences`, `goToDefinition` | Click on go to definition or fin references. Hovering is excluded as it can be performed passively. |

> | Code Insight              | TBD                                | TBD at launch on cloud                                                                              |

Author: ```suggestion
```

> | Batch Changes             | TBD                                | TBD at launch on cloud                                                                              |

Reviewer 2: @jyavorska to get this PR merged and published let's just remove all the places where there is TBD.  We can go back in and add info once we have it for each of these product areas.

> | Batch Changes             | TBD                                | TBD at launch on cloud                                                                              |

Author: Yeah good call.

> | Batch Changes             | TBD                                | TBD at launch on cloud                                                                              |

Author: ```suggestion
```

> | API docs                  | TBD                                | TBD                                                                                                 |

Author: We should either make this no longer TBD or remove it.

Author: ```suggestion
```

We are also looking at the following as possibilities:

- Adding private code

> - TODO identify meaningful events from Reforge

Author: This was an open discussion item from the source document that we should complete.

Author: @anna-mmikhova was the one tagged in the discussion, so if anyone has any ideas of additional items to add then please shout, otherwise I'll remove this section before merging and we can always follow up with additional improvements later.

Author: Removing since nobody had any ideas.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - TODO upgrade based on new data

Author: @ebrodymoore you were tagged explicitly in the conversation in the doc, so tagging you here, but of course everyone is welcome to comment. Is there anything to add here, or can/should this come in an later iteration?

> - TODO upgrade based on new data

Author: Removing since nobody had any ideas

> - TODO upgrade based on new data

Author: ```suggestion
```
